content/reference/tugboat-community-images.md, before:

---
title: "Tugboat Community Images"
date: 2020-07-10T11:26:28-04:00
weight: 7
---

In addition to the officially maintained [Tugboat Docker images](/reference/tugboat-images/), these are some Docker
images from the Tugboat community that are available for use. Please note, use of these images is not covered by
Tugboat's Support service.

| Name / Use Case                                                                                           | Usage                                |                                                                               |
| :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Drupal Module or Theme** [{{< icon class="fas fa-link" title="Anchor link" >}}](#q0rban-tugboat-drupal) | `image: q0rban/tugboat-drupal:[TAG]` | [Documentation](https://github.com/q0rban/tugboat-drupal/blob/main/README.md) |

If you have a Docker image that works with Tugboat that you'd like to share, please open a pull request on our
[TugboatQA/docs GitHub repository](https://github.com/TugboatQA/docs) or reach out to us via our
[regular support channels](/support/).

Commit message:

Tweak wording, add share header and more details

content/reference/tugboat-community-images.md, after:

---
title: "Tugboat Community Images"
date: 2020-07-10T11:26:28-04:00
weight: 7
---

In addition to our officially maintained [Tugboat Docker images](/reference/tugboat-images/), these unofficial Docker
images created by community Tugboat users may be useful when building your Tugboat Previews.

| Image Purpose                                                                                             | Usage                                | Documentation                                                                 |
| :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Drupal Module or Theme** [{{< icon class="fas fa-link" title="Anchor link" >}}](#q0rban-tugboat-drupal) | `image: q0rban/tugboat-drupal:[TAG]` | [Documentation](https://github.com/q0rban/tugboat-drupal/blob/main/README.md) |

{{% notice info %}} These are unofficial images that we do not maintain, so Tugboat's Support service does not cover
these images. To request changes or updates to the images, or information and documentation on how to use them, please
contact the image maintainers. {{% /notice %}}

## Share a Community Image

If you've created a custom Docker image for your Tugboat config that you'd like to share, please open a pull request on
our [TugboatQA/docs GitHub repository](https://github.com/TugboatQA/docs), or reach out to us via our
[regular support channels](/support/).

We request that you provide a README or other documentation detailing the purpose of your image, as well as any
important usage details, such as a corresponding Tugboat `config.yml` or available tags.
