getting-started/create-a-project.md, before:

# Create a Project

When authenticating to Tugboat for the first time you will be presented with a form to create your first Tugboat Project. In essence, a Tugboat Project will contain any amount of repositories you want Tugboat to build previews for, and is tied to a subscription model (free or premium). Additionally, you can invite users to join the project. You can create as many additional projects as you like later on.

As for the Project creation form, we start out by giving it a name. You can always update this later.

![Project Name](_images/project-name.png)

Then you have the opportunity to add a Repository to your project. You will be able to choose from any repository you have access to from any authenticated provider. You can always skip this step and add one or more repositories later from the Project dashboard.

![Add a Repository](_images/project-add-repository.png)

When you add a Repository you'll need to what services it needs in order to operate. Presented here are a few bundled services for common solutions. These are quick starting templates to get you started. Later on you can edit or add new Services to your project. For more info about Services and how they work, check out the [Services chapter]() in the documentation.

![Service templates](_images/project-templates.jpg)

Lastly, select a subscription tier for your project. Tiers range from a free plan to Starter, Pro, and Premium. Additionally enterprise plans are available as well. Alongside larger availble disk space, CPU and memory, one of the benefits of a premium tier are Base Previews. Base Previews speed up build times and lower build sizes significantly. To learn more, check out the [Base Previews section]() in the documentation.

![Tiers](_images/project-tier.png)

After completing this form, you will be redirected to either the [Repository dashboard]() page or the [Project dashboard]() page depending whether you selected a repository. You can always add one or more Repositories later from the Project Dashboard:

![Add a Repository from the Project dashboard](_images/project-dashboard-add-repository.jpg)

Commit message:

Start on an editorial/link-check pass

getting-started/create-a-project.md, after:

# Create a Project

When authenticating to Tugboat for the first time you will be presented with a
form to create your first Tugboat Project. A Tugboat Project can
contain any number of repositories that you want Tugboat to build previews for, and
is tied to a subscription model (free or premium). Additionally, you can invite
users to join a project.

Start by giving your Tugboat Project a name.

![Project Name](_images/project-name.png)

Then, choose a repository that you want Tugboat to work with. If you choose to
skip this step, repositories can be added later from the Tugboat Project's
dashboard.

![Add a Repository](_images/project-add-repository.png)

Tugboat needs to know which services your repository needs in order to run. We
provide a handful of common sets of services as a quick starting point. These
services can be modified later from the [Repository
Settings](../tugboat-dashboard/repository/settings/index.md).

![Service templates](_images/project-templates.jpg)

Finally, select a pricing tier for your project. Use the feature matrix to
decide which tier best suits your needs. If in doubt, select the Free tier, and
upgrade as needed when you start to run into the limits.

Besides more available
disk space, CPU, and memory, the ability to create [Base Previews]() is a major
bonus to selecting a paid tier. [Base Previews]() allow Tugboat to speed up build times
and significanly reduces the amount of disk space a given preview occupies.

![Tiers](_images/project-tier.png)

After completing this form, you will be redirected to either the [Repository
dashboard]() page or the [Project dashboard]() page depending whether you
selected a repository. You can always add one or more Repositories later from
the Project Dashboard:

![Add a Repository from the Project
dashboard](_images/project-dashboard-add-repository.jpg)
