content/starter-configs/code-snippets/static-jekyll.md, before:

---
title: "Jekyll Static Site"
date: 2020-05-29T15:00:00-04:00
weight: 3
---

A Tugboat Preview for a [Jekyll static site](https://jekyllrb.com/) builds the static site, and then serves it. This
config generates a static site that looks like your `jekyll` build on your local development environment, but is
accessible via the secure Tugboat URL by anyone who has the link; no need for the viewer to have a local environment.

## Configure Tugboat

The Tugboat configuration is managed by a [YAML file](/setting-up-tugboat/create-a-tugboat-config-file/) at
`.tugboat/config.yml` in the git repository. Here's a basic Jekyll static site configuration you can use as a starting
point, with comments to explain what's going on:

```yaml
services:
  # What to call the service hosting the site. Because there is only
  # one service, it is automatically set as the default service, which
  # does a few things
  #   1. Clones the git repository into the service container
  #   2. Exposes port 80 to the Tugboat HTTP proxy
  #   3. Routes requests to the preview URL to this service
  apache:
    # Use the available version of Apache by not specifying a version
    image: tugboatqa/httpd

    # A set of commands to run while building this service
    commands:
      # Commands that set up the basic preview infrastructure
      init: |
        apt-get update
        apt-get install ruby ruby-dev
        gem install jekyll bundler

        cp "${TUGBOAT_ROOT}"/.tugboat/httpd.conf /usr/local/apache2/conf/httpd.conf

        apt-get clean
        rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/* /tmp/* /var/tmp/*

      build: |
        bundle update
        bundle exec jekyll build

        # Link the document root to the expected path. This example links the
        # /public directory generated by the Hugo build to the docroot
        ln -snf "${TUGBOAT_ROOT}"/_site "${DOCROOT}"
```

Want to know more about something mentioned in the comments of this config file? Check out these topics:

- [Name your Service](/setting-up-services/how-to-set-up-services/name-your-service/)
- [Specify a Service image](/setting-up-services/how-to-set-up-services/specify-a-service-image/)
- [Leverage Service commands](/setting-up-services/how-to-set-up-services/leverage-service-commands/)
- [Define a default Service](/setting-up-services/how-to-set-up-services/define-a-default-service/)
- [Set the document root path](/setting-up-services/how-to-set-up-services/set-the-document-root-path/)
- [Preview build process phases (`init`, `update`, `build`)](/building-a-preview/preview-deep-dive/how-previews-work/#the-build-process-explained)

## Start Building Previews!

Once this Tugboat configuration file is committed to your git repository, you can start
[building previews](/building-a-preview/administer-previews/build-previews/)!

Commit message:

Add comments explaining file, and remove Tugboat-specific line

content/starter-configs/code-snippets/static-jekyll.md, after:

---
title: "Jekyll Static Site"
date: 2020-05-29T12:00:00-04:00
weight: 3
---

A Tugboat Preview for a [Jekyll static site](https://jekyllrb.com/) builds the static site, and then serves it. This
config generates a static site that looks like your `jekyll build` on your local development environment, but is
accessible via the secure Tugboat URL by anyone who has the link; no need for the viewer to have a local environment.

## Configure Tugboat

The Tugboat configuration is managed by a [YAML file](/setting-up-tugboat/create-a-tugboat-config-file/) at
`.tugboat/config.yml` in the git repository. Here's a basic Jekyll static site configuration you can use as a starting
point, with comments to explain what's going on:

```yaml
services:
  # What to call the service hosting the site. Because there is only
  # one service, it is automatically set as the default service, which
  # does a few things
  #   1. Clones the git repository into the service container
  #   2. Exposes port 80 to the Tugboat HTTP proxy
  #   3. Routes requests to the preview URL to this service
  apache:
    # Use the available version of Apache by not specifying a version
    image: tugboatqa/httpd

    # A set of commands to run while building this service
    commands:
      # Commands that set up the basic preview infrastructure
      init:
        # Check for updates to apt-get, and then use it to install Ruby
        - apt-get update
        - apt-get install ruby ruby-dev

        # Install Jekyll
        - gem install jekyll bundler

        # Clean up apt artifacts to keep the Preview small
        - apt-get clean
        - rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/* /tmp/* /var/tmp/*

      build:
        # Check for updates to Jekyll
        - bundle update

        # Use the `jekyll build` command to build your static site
        - bundle exec jekyll build

        # Link the document root to the expected path. This example links the
        # /public directory generated by the Jekyll build to the docroot
        - ln -snf "${TUGBOAT_ROOT}"/_site "${DOCROOT}"
```

Want to know more about something mentioned in the comments of this config file? Check out these topics:

- [Name your Service](/setting-up-services/how-to-set-up-services/name-your-service/)
- [Specify a Service image](/setting-up-services/how-to-set-up-services/specify-a-service-image/)
- [Leverage Service commands](/setting-up-services/how-to-set-up-services/leverage-service-commands/)
- [Define a default Service](/setting-up-services/how-to-set-up-services/define-a-default-service/)
- [Set the document root path](/setting-up-services/how-to-set-up-services/set-the-document-root-path/)
- [Preview build process phases (`init`, `update`, `build`)](/building-a-preview/preview-deep-dive/how-previews-work/#the-build-process-explained)

## Start Building Previews!

Once this Tugboat configuration file is committed to your git repository, you can start
[building previews](/building-a-preview/administer-previews/build-previews/)!
