content/tugboat-billing/cancel-billing.md, before:

---
title: "Cancel Billing"
date: 2019-09-19T10:50:09-04:00
weight: 4
---

There are a few ways you can cancel billing for your Tugboat project:

- [Change your Tugboat plan to the Free tier](#change-your-tugboat-plan-to-the-free-tier)
- [Delete your project](#delete-your-project)

## Change your Tugboat plan to the Free tier

If you want to downgrade your Tugboat billing, but still keep using Tugboat, you can change your Tugboat plan to the
Free tier. Follow [the instructions to change your Tugboat plan](../change-tugboat-plan/), and select the Free tier.

{{% notice note %}} If you downgrade your Tugboat plan, the changes will take effect when the currently paid cycle is
complete. Whenever you view the **Your Plan** section of **Project Settings**, you'll see a banner containing the date
that the change will take effect. If your
[project storage](../tugboat-pricing/#calculating-project-storage-for-tugboat-billing) is over the limit of the
lower-level tier, you won't be able to build any new Previews until you've freed up enough space to put you under that
storage limit. {{% /notice %}}

## Delete your project

If you don't need your Tugboat Previews anymore, or are finished using Tugboat for a particular project, you can always
delete your project:

1. Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the upper-right of the Tugboat dashboard.
2. Select the project you want to delete.
3. Go to {{% ui-text %}}Project Settings{{% /ui-text %}}.
4. Scroll down past {{% ui-text %}}Your Plan{{% /ui-text %}}.
5. Click the red {{% ui-text %}}Delete Project{{% /ui-text %}} button.

{{% notice note %}} When you delete a Tugboat project, you're only deleting the Previews and Tugboat repositories for
that project. This does not affect data in your git repositories. This also does not affect other Tugboat projects; if
you have three projects in Tugboat, for example, and you delete one of them, you can still continue working in the other
two projects. {{% /notice %}}

{{%expand "Visual Walkthrough" %}}

Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the upper-right of the Tugboat dashboard.

![Go to username -> My Projects](../../_images/go-to-user-my-projects.png)

Select the project you want to delete.

![Select the project](../../_images/select-a-project.png)

Go to {{% ui-text %}}Project Settings{{% /ui-text %}}.

![Go to Project Settings](../../_images/click-project-settings-link.png)

Scroll down past {{% ui-text %}}Your Plan{{% /ui-text %}}.

![Scroll down past Your Plan](../../_images/billing-scroll-past-your-plan.png)

Click the red {{% ui-text %}}Delete Project{{% /ui-text %}} button.

![Click the Delete Project button](../../_images/billing-delete-project.png)

{{% /expand%}}

Commit message:

Add a notice about Tugboat Premium on billing pages

content/tugboat-billing/cancel-billing.md, after:

---
title: "Cancel Billing"
date: 2019-09-19T10:50:09-04:00
weight: 4
---

{{% notice tier %}}
The following instructions do not apply to subscriptions to [Tugboat Premium](https://www.tugboat.qa/pricing). For those subscriptions, please contact your Tugboat account executive or [Tugboat Support](https://www.tugboat.qa/support).
{{% /notice %}}

There are a few ways you can cancel billing for your Tugboat project:

- [Change your Tugboat plan to the Free tier](#change-your-tugboat-plan-to-the-free-tier)
- [Delete your project](#delete-your-project)

## Change your Tugboat plan to the Free tier

If you want to downgrade your Tugboat billing, but still keep using Tugboat, you can change your Tugboat plan to the
Free tier. Follow [the instructions to change your Tugboat plan](../change-tugboat-plan/), and select the Free tier.

{{% notice note %}} If you downgrade your Tugboat plan, the changes will take effect when the currently paid cycle is
complete. Whenever you view the **Your Plan** section of **Project Settings**, you'll see a banner containing the date
that the change will take effect. If your
[project storage](../tugboat-pricing/#calculating-project-storage-for-tugboat-billing) is over the limit of the
lower-level tier, you won't be able to build any new Previews until you've freed up enough space to put you under that
storage limit. {{% /notice %}}

## Delete your project

If you don't need your Tugboat Previews anymore, or are finished using Tugboat for a particular project, you can always
delete your project:

1. Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the upper-right of the Tugboat dashboard.
2. Select the project you want to delete.
3. Go to {{% ui-text %}}Project Settings{{% /ui-text %}}.
4. Scroll down past {{% ui-text %}}Your Plan{{% /ui-text %}}.
5. Click the red {{% ui-text %}}Delete Project{{% /ui-text %}} button.

{{% notice note %}} When you delete a Tugboat project, you're only deleting the Previews and Tugboat repositories for
that project. This does not affect data in your git repositories. This also does not affect other Tugboat projects; if
you have three projects in Tugboat, for example, and you delete one of them, you can still continue working in the other
two projects. {{% /notice %}}

{{%expand "Visual Walkthrough" %}}

Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the upper-right of the Tugboat dashboard.

![Go to username -> My Projects](../../_images/go-to-user-my-projects.png)

Select the project you want to delete.

![Select the project](../../_images/select-a-project.png)

Go to {{% ui-text %}}Project Settings{{% /ui-text %}}.

![Go to Project Settings](../../_images/click-project-settings-link.png)

Scroll down past {{% ui-text %}}Your Plan{{% /ui-text %}}.

![Scroll down past Your Plan](../../_images/billing-scroll-past-your-plan.png)

Click the red {{% ui-text %}}Delete Project{{% /ui-text %}} button.

![Click the Delete Project button](../../_images/billing-delete-project.png)

{{% /expand%}}
