content/building-a-preview/work-with-base-previews/delete-base-preview.md, before:

---
title: "Delete a Base Preview"
date: 2019-09-24T11:53:17-04:00
weight: 7
---

Want to delete a Base Preview you're not using anymore? Keep in mind that if you
delete a Base Preview that was used to generate child Previews, those child
Previews will grow to their full size, which could put your project over the
[limit of disk space](/tugboat-billing/tugboat-pricing/#how-does-tugboat-pricing-work)
available to the project. If you don't want this, you can
[stop using a Base Preview](../stop-using-base-preview/) to stop building new
child Previews from this Preview, but preserve the current size of existing
child Previews.

{{% notice note %}} When you exceed the disk space limit in your project, you
won't be able to build new Previews until you are under the project's disk space
limit again. You can get under the project's space limit by
[deleting Previews](../../administer-previews/delete-previews/), or
[increasing your project's billing tier](/tugboat-billing/tugboat-pricing/#change-your-tugboat-plan).
{{% /notice %}}

## To delete a Base Preview:

1. Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
   upper-right of the Tugboat screen.
2. Select the project where you want to delete a Base Preview.
3. Click into the repo where you want to delete a Base Preview.
4. Click the **Actions** drop-down menu for the Base Preview you want to delete,
   and select **Delete**.
5. Click the checkbox next to **Yes, delete this preview** and then press the
   **Delete** button to confirm.

#### Visual Walkthrough

Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
upper-right of the Tugboat screen.

![Go to username -> My Projects](/_images/go-to-user-my-projects.png)

Select the project where you want to delete a Base Preview.

![Select the project](/_images/select-a-project.png)

Click into the repo where you want to delete a Base Preview.

![Click into Tugboat repository](/_images/click-into-tugboat-repository.png)

Click the **Actions** drop-down menu for the Base Preview you want to delete,
and select **Delete**.

![Click the Actions drop-down, and select Delete.](/_images/base-preview-actions-delete.png)

Click the checkbox next to **Yes, delete this preview** and then press the
**Delete** button to confirm.

![Confirm Preview delete and press Delete button](/_images/base-preview-press-delete-button.png)

Commit message:

Apply ui-text shortcode to UI elements in doc

content/building-a-preview/work-with-base-previews/delete-base-preview.md, after:

---
title: "Delete a Base Preview"
date: 2019-09-24T11:53:17-04:00
weight: 7
---

Want to delete a Base Preview you're not using anymore? Keep in mind that if you
delete a Base Preview that was used to generate child Previews, those child
Previews will grow to their full size, which could put your project over the
[limit of disk space](/tugboat-billing/tugboat-pricing/#how-does-tugboat-pricing-work)
available to the project. If you don't want this, you can
[stop using a Base Preview](../stop-using-base-preview/) to stop building new
child Previews from this Preview, but preserve the current size of existing
child Previews.

{{% notice note %}} When you exceed the disk space limit in your project, you
won't be able to build new Previews until you are under the project's disk space
limit again. You can get under the project's space limit by
[deleting Previews](../../administer-previews/delete-previews/), or
[increasing your project's billing tier](/tugboat-billing/tugboat-pricing/#change-your-tugboat-plan).
{{% /notice %}}

## To delete a Base Preview:

1. Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
   upper-right of the Tugboat screen.
2. Select the project where you want to delete a Base Preview.
3. Click into the repo where you want to delete a Base Preview.
4. Click the {{% ui-text %}}Actions{{% /ui-text %}} drop-down menu for the Base
   Preview you want to delete, and select {{% ui-text %}}Delete{{% /ui-text %}}.
5. Click the checkbox next to {{% ui-text %}}Yes, delete this
   preview{{% /ui-text %}} and then press the
   {{% ui-text %}}Delete{{% /ui-text %}} button to confirm.

#### Visual Walkthrough

Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
upper-right of the Tugboat screen.

![Go to username -> My Projects](/_images/go-to-user-my-projects.png)

Select the project where you want to delete a Base Preview.

![Select the project](/_images/select-a-project.png)

Click into the repo where you want to delete a Base Preview.

![Click into Tugboat repository](/_images/click-into-tugboat-repository.png)

Click the {{% ui-text %}}Actions{{% /ui-text %}} drop-down menu for the Base
Preview you want to delete, and select {{% ui-text %}}Delete{{% /ui-text %}}.

![Click the Actions drop-down, and select Delete.](/_images/base-preview-actions-delete.png)

Click the checkbox next to {{% ui-text %}}Yes, delete this
preview{{% /ui-text %}} and then press the {{% ui-text %}}Delete{{% /ui-text %}}
button to confirm.

![Confirm Preview delete and press Delete button](/_images/base-preview-press-delete-button.png)
