content/building-a-preview/work-with-base-previews/stop-using-base-preview.md, before:

---
title: "Stop Using a Base Preview"
date: 2019-09-24T11:52:51-04:00
weight: 5
---

When you no longer want new Preview Builds to use a Base Preview; for example,
if you've moved to a new concept, want to switch to a development branch or
otherwise want to stop using a Base Preview; you can remove that Base Preview.
This keeps the Base Preview and child Previews in your Tugboat project, but new
builds will no longer start with this Base Preview. If you want to delete a Base
Preview, instead, see: [Delete a Base Preview](../delete-base-preview/).

## To stop using a Base Preview:

1. Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
   upper-right of the Tugboat screen.
2. Select the project where you want to stop using a Base Preview.
3. Click into the repo where you want to stop using a Base Preview.
4. Go to the **Manage Base Previews** link on the Repository Dashboard.
5. Click the checkbox next to the Base Preview you want to stop using.
6. Press the **OK** button.

The deselected Preview will disappear from the Base Preview section of the
dashboard, and subsequent Preview builds - including automated builds from git
provider integrations - will no longer start from that Base Preview.

#### Visual Walkthrough

Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
upper-right of the Tugboat screen.

![Go to username -> My Projects](/_images/go-to-user-my-projects.png)

Select the project where you want to stop using a Base Preview.

![Select the project](/_images/select-a-project.png)

Click into the repo where you want to stop using a Base Preview.

![Click into Tugboat repository](/_images/click-into-tugboat-repository.png)

Go to the **Manage Base Previews** link on the Repository Dashboard.

![Go to Manage Base Previews](/_images/stop-using-base-preview-manage-base-previews.png)

Click the checkbox next to the Base Preview you want to stop using.

![Click checkbox to deselect a Base Preview](/_images/stop-using-base-preview-click-checkbox.png)

Press the **OK** button.

![Press OK](/_images/stop-using-base-preview-press-ok.png)

Commit message:

Apply ui-text shortcode to UI elements in doc

content/building-a-preview/work-with-base-previews/stop-using-base-preview.md, after:

---
title: "Stop Using a Base Preview"
date: 2019-09-24T11:52:51-04:00
weight: 5
---

When you no longer want new Preview Builds to use a Base Preview; for example,
if you've moved to a new concept, want to switch to a development branch or
otherwise want to stop using a Base Preview; you can remove that Base Preview.
This keeps the Base Preview and child Previews in your Tugboat project, but new
builds will no longer start with this Base Preview. If you want to delete a Base
Preview, instead, see: [Delete a Base Preview](../delete-base-preview/).

## To stop using a Base Preview:

1. Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
   upper-right of the Tugboat screen.
2. Select the project where you want to stop using a Base Preview.
3. Click into the repo where you want to stop using a Base Preview.
4. Go to the {{% ui-text %}}Manage Base Previews{{% /ui-text %}} link on the
   Repository Dashboard.
5. Click the checkbox next to the Base Preview you want to stop using.
6. Press the {{% ui-text %}}OK{{% /ui-text %}} button.

The deselected Preview will disappear from the Base Preview section of the
dashboard, and subsequent Preview builds - including automated builds from git
provider integrations - will no longer start from that Base Preview.

#### Visual Walkthrough

Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
upper-right of the Tugboat screen.

![Go to username -> My Projects](/_images/go-to-user-my-projects.png)

Select the project where you want to stop using a Base Preview.

![Select the project](/_images/select-a-project.png)

Click into the repo where you want to stop using a Base Preview.

![Click into Tugboat repository](/_images/click-into-tugboat-repository.png)

Go to the {{% ui-text %}}Manage Base Previews{{% /ui-text %}} link on the
Repository Dashboard.

![Go to Manage Base Previews](/_images/stop-using-base-preview-manage-base-previews.png)

Click the checkbox next to the Base Preview you want to stop using.

![Click checkbox to deselect a Base Preview](/_images/stop-using-base-preview-click-checkbox.png)

Press the {{% ui-text %}}OK{{% /ui-text %}} button.

![Press OK](/_images/stop-using-base-preview-press-ok.png)
