getting-started/create-a-project/index.md, before:

# Create a Project

When authenticating to Tugboat for the first time you will be presented with a
form to create your first Tugboat Project. A Tugboat Project can
contain any number of repositories that you want Tugboat to build previews for, and
is tied to a subscription model (free or premium). Additionally, you can invite
users to join a project.

Start by giving your Tugboat Project a name.

![Project Name](_images/project-name.png)

Then, choose a repository that you want Tugboat to work with. If you choose to
skip this step, repositories can be added later from the [Project
dashboard](../../tugboat-dashboard/projects/index.md).

![Add a Repository](_images/project-add-repository.png)

Tugboat needs to know which services your repository needs in order to run. We
provide a handful of common sets of services as a quick starting point. These
services can be modified later from the [Repository
Settings](../../tugboat-dashboard/repositories/settings/index.md).

![Service templates](_images/project-templates.png)

Finally, select a pricing tier for your project. Use the feature matrix to
decide which tier best suits your needs. If in doubt, select the Free tier, and
upgrade as needed when you start to run into the limits.

Besides more available disk space, CPU, and memory, the ability to create Base
Previewsis a major bonus to selecting a paid tier. Base Previews allow Tugboat
to speed up build times and significanly reduces the amount of disk space a
given preview occupies.

![Tiers](_images/project-tier.png)

After completing this form, you will be redirected to either the [Repository
dashboard](../../tugboat-dashboard/repositories/index.md) page or the
[Project dashboard](../../tugboat-dashboard/projects/index.md) page
depending whether you selected a repository. You can always add one or more
Repositories later from the Project Dashboard:

![Add a Repository from the Project
dashboard](_images/project-dashboard-add-repository.png)

Commit message:

[docs] Update help on determining how to structure Tugboat projects

getting-started/create-a-project/index.md, after:

# Create a Project

When authenticating to Tugboat for the first time you will be presented with a
form to create your first Tugboat Project. To start, give your Tugboat Project a
name.

![Project Name](_images/project-name.png)

If you have a single repository you'd like to wire up with Tugboat, you can
name your Tugboat project after that repository. If it's more complicated than
that, read about [structuring Tugboat projects](structuring-projects/index.md).

After choosing a name, select the repository that you want Tugboat to work with.
If you choose to skip this step, repositories can be added later from the
[Project dashboard](../../tugboat-dashboard/projects/index.md).

![Add a Repository](_images/project-add-repository.png)

Tugboat needs to know which services your repository needs in order to run. We
provide a handful of common sets of services as a quick starting point. These
services can be modified later from the [Repository
Settings](../../tugboat-dashboard/repositories/settings/index.md).

![Service templates](_images/project-templates.png)

Finally, select a pricing tier for your project. Use the feature matrix to
decide which tier best suits your needs. If in doubt, select the Free tier, and
upgrade as needed when you start to run into the limits.

Besides more available disk space, CPU, and memory, the ability to create Base
Previewsis a major bonus to selecting a paid tier. Base Previews allow Tugboat
to speed up build times and significanly reduces the amount of disk space a
given preview occupies.

![Tiers](_images/project-tier.png)

After completing this form, you will be redirected to either the [Repository
dashboard](../../tugboat-dashboard/repositories/index.md) page or the
[Project dashboard](../../tugboat-dashboard/projects/index.md) page
depending whether you selected a repository. You can always add one or more
Repositories later from the Project Dashboard:

![Add a Repository from the Project
dashboard](_images/project-dashboard-add-repository.png)
