reference/environment-variables/index.md, before:

# Environment Variables

Tugboat injects the following environment variables into every service. These
variables are available for the entire lifetime of a service. This includes both
build-time as well as run-time. So, they can be used in Build Scripts as well as
run-time configuration files, etc.

- **`$TUGBOAT_DOMAIN`** - The root domain of the current Tugboat Preview

- **`$TUGBOAT_PREVIEW_ID`** - The ID of the current preview.

- **`$TUGBOAT_PREVIEW`** - The friendly name of the current preview.

- **`$TUGBOAT_PROJECT_ID`** - The ID of the project that the current preview
  belongs to.

- **`$TUGBOAT_PROJECT`** - The friendly name of the project that the current
  preview belongs to.

- **`$TUGBOAT_REPO_ID`** - The ID of the repo that the current preview belongs
  to.

- **`$TUGBOAT_REPO`** - The friendly name of the repo that the current preview
  belongs to.

- **`$TUGBOAT_ROOT`** - The filesystem location where the git repository is
  cloned.

- **`$TUGBOAT_SERVICE_ID`** - The ID of the current service.

- **`$TUGBOAT_SERVICE`** - The friendly name of the current service. This is
  also the hostname used to reference this service container from other
  services.

- **`$TUGBOAT_SMTP`** - The hostname of a Tugboat SMTP server that can be used
  to capture outbound email from the preview.

## Exposed Service Variables

If a service has an exposed HTTP port configured, the following variables are
also available with information about the service's public URL

- **`$TUGBOAT_SERVICE_TOKEN`** - The authentication token for the Tugboat
  Service. This is used by the Tugboat HTTP proxy to grant access to a Service
  and is passed through mostly as an informational value. Additional
  verification could be done in the application if necessary.

- **`$TUGBOAT_SERVICE_URL`** - The full URL of the current service

- **`$TUGBOAT_SERVICE_URL_PROTOCOL`** - The "protocol" part of the current
  service's URL.

- **`$TUGBOAT_SERVICE_URL_HOST`** - The "host" part of the current service's
  URL.

- **`$TUGBOAT_SERVICE_URL_PATH`** - The "path" part of the current service's
  URL.

## Base Preview Environment Variables

If a Preview was built from a Base Preview, the following variables are also
available with information about the base preview.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BASE_PREVIEW`** - The friendly name of the Base Preview.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BASE_PREVIEW_ID`** - The ID of the Base Preview.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BASE_PREVIEW_TOKEN`** - The authentication token of the Base
  Preview's default service.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BASE_PREVIEW_URL`** - The public URL for the Base Preview's
  default service.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BASE_PREVIEW_URL_PROTOCOL`** - The "protocol" part of the Base
  Preview's default service URL.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BASE_PREVIEW_URL_HOST`** - The "host" part of the Base Preview's
  default service URL.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BASE_PREVIEW_URL_PATH`** - The "path" part of the Base Preview's
  default service URL.

## Provider-specific Environment Variables

### Bitbucket

These variables are injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a
Bitbucket repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BITBUCKET_OWNER`** - The owner of the Bitbucket repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BITBUCKET_SLUG`** - The URL-friendly name of the Bitbucket
  repository. See
  https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucket/what-is-a-slug-224395839.html

These variables are only injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a
Bitbucket pull request.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BITBUCKET_PR`** - The Bitbucket pull request number.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BITBUCKET_TITLE`** - The title of the Bitbucket pull request.

* **`$TUGBOAT_BITBUCKET_SOURCE`** - The name of the pull request source branch.

* **`$TUGBOAT_BITBUCKET_DESTINATION`** - The name of the pull request
  destination branch.

### Git

These variables are injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a raw git
repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GIT_REPO`** - The address of the git repository.

### GitHub

These variables are injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a GitHub
repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITHUB_OWNER`** - The owner of the GitHub repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITHUB_REPO`** - The name of the GitHub repository.

These variables are only injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a
GitHub pull request.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITHUB_PR`** - The GitHub pull request number.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITHUB_TITLE`** - The title of the GitHub pull request.

* **`$TUGBOAT_GITHUB_HEAD`** - The name of the pull request head branch.

* **`$TUGBOAT_GITHUB_BASE`** - The name of the pull request base branch.

### GitLab

These variables are injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a GitLab
repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITLAB_NAMESPACE`** - The namespace of the GitLab repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITLAB_PROJECT`** - The project name of the GitLab repository.

These variables are only injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a
GitLab merge request.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITLAB_MR`** - The GitLab merge request number.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITLAB_TITLE`** - The title of the GitLab merge request.

* **`$TUGBOAT_GITLAB_SOURCE`** - The name of the merge request source branch.

* **`$TUGBOAT_GITLAB_TARGET`** - The name of the merge request target branch.

### Stash / Bitbucket Server

These variables are injected into a Tugboat Previews that are built from a Stash
or Bitbucket Server repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_STASH_PROJECT`** - The project where the repository lives.

- **`$TUGBOAT_STASH_SLUG`** - The URL-friendly name of the repository. See
  https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucket/what-is-a-slug-224395839.html

These variables are only injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a
Stash or Bitbucket Server pull request.

- **`$TUGBOAT_STASH_PR`** - The pull request number.

- **`$TUGBOAT_STASH_TITLE`** - The title of the pull request.

* **`$TUGBOAT_STASH_SOURCE`** - The name of the pull request source branch.

* **`$TUGBOAT_STASH_DESTINATION`** - The name of the pull request destination
  branch.

Commit message:

Add default service envvars to reference page

reference/environment-variables/index.md, after:

# Environment Variables

Tugboat injects the following environment variables into every service. These
variables are available for the entire lifetime of a service. This includes both
build-time as well as run-time. So, they can be used in Build Scripts as well as
run-time configuration files, etc.

- **`TUGBOAT_DEFAULT_SERVICE`** - The friendly name of the default service of
  the current preview.

- **`TUGBOAT_DEFAULT_SERVICE_ID`** - The ID of the default service of the
  current preview.

- **`TUGBOAT_DEFAULT_SERVICE_TOKEN`** - The authentication token for the default
  service of the current preview.

- **`TUGBOAT_DEFAULT_SERVICE_URL`** - The full URL for the default service of
  the current preview. This is also the default URL for the preview itself.

- **`TUGBOAT_DEFAULT_SERVICE_URL_HOST`** - The "host" part of the URL for the
  default service of the current preview.

- **`TUGBOAT_DEFAULT_SERVICE_URL_PROTOCOL`** - The "protocol" part of the URL
  for the default service of the current preview.

- **`TUGBOAT_DEFAULT_SERVICE_URL_PATH`** - The "path" part of the URL for the
  default service of the current preview.

- **`$TUGBOAT_DOMAIN`** - The root domain of the current Tugboat Preview

- **`$TUGBOAT_PREVIEW_ID`** - The ID of the current preview.

- **`$TUGBOAT_PREVIEW`** - The friendly name of the current preview.

- **`$TUGBOAT_PROJECT_ID`** - The ID of the project that the current preview
  belongs to.

- **`$TUGBOAT_PROJECT`** - The friendly name of the project that the current
  preview belongs to.

- **`$TUGBOAT_REPO_ID`** - The ID of the repo that the current preview belongs
  to.

- **`$TUGBOAT_REPO`** - The friendly name of the repo that the current preview
  belongs to.

- **`$TUGBOAT_ROOT`** - The filesystem location where the git repository is
  cloned.

- **`$TUGBOAT_SERVICE_ID`** - The ID of the current service.

- **`$TUGBOAT_SERVICE`** - The friendly name of the current service. This is
  also the hostname used to reference this service container from other
  services.

- **`$TUGBOAT_SMTP`** - The hostname of a Tugboat SMTP server that can be used
  to capture outbound email from the preview.

## Exposed Service Variables

If a service has an exposed HTTP port configured, the following variables are
also available with information about the service's public URL

- **`$TUGBOAT_SERVICE_TOKEN`** - The authentication token for the Tugboat
  Service. This is used by the Tugboat HTTP proxy to grant access to a Service
  and is passed through mostly as an informational value. Additional
  verification could be done in the application if necessary.

- **`$TUGBOAT_SERVICE_URL`** - The full URL of the current service

- **`$TUGBOAT_SERVICE_URL_PROTOCOL`** - The "protocol" part of the current
  service's URL.

- **`$TUGBOAT_SERVICE_URL_HOST`** - The "host" part of the current service's
  URL.

- **`$TUGBOAT_SERVICE_URL_PATH`** - The "path" part of the current service's
  URL.

## Base Preview Environment Variables

If a Preview was built from a Base Preview, the following variables are also
available with information about the base preview.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BASE_PREVIEW`** - The friendly name of the Base Preview.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BASE_PREVIEW_ID`** - The ID of the Base Preview.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BASE_PREVIEW_TOKEN`** - The authentication token of the Base
  Preview's default service.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BASE_PREVIEW_URL`** - The public URL for the Base Preview's
  default service.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BASE_PREVIEW_URL_PROTOCOL`** - The "protocol" part of the Base
  Preview's default service URL.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BASE_PREVIEW_URL_HOST`** - The "host" part of the Base Preview's
  default service URL.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BASE_PREVIEW_URL_PATH`** - The "path" part of the Base Preview's
  default service URL.

## Provider-specific Environment Variables

### Bitbucket

These variables are injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a
Bitbucket repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BITBUCKET_OWNER`** - The owner of the Bitbucket repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BITBUCKET_SLUG`** - The URL-friendly name of the Bitbucket
  repository. See
  https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucket/what-is-a-slug-224395839.html

These variables are only injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a
Bitbucket pull request.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BITBUCKET_PR`** - The Bitbucket pull request number.

- **`$TUGBOAT_BITBUCKET_TITLE`** - The title of the Bitbucket pull request.

* **`$TUGBOAT_BITBUCKET_SOURCE`** - The name of the pull request source branch.

* **`$TUGBOAT_BITBUCKET_DESTINATION`** - The name of the pull request
  destination branch.

### Git

These variables are injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a raw git
repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GIT_REPO`** - The address of the git repository.

### GitHub

These variables are injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a GitHub
repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITHUB_OWNER`** - The owner of the GitHub repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITHUB_REPO`** - The name of the GitHub repository.

These variables are only injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a
GitHub pull request.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITHUB_PR`** - The GitHub pull request number.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITHUB_TITLE`** - The title of the GitHub pull request.

* **`$TUGBOAT_GITHUB_HEAD`** - The name of the pull request head branch.

* **`$TUGBOAT_GITHUB_BASE`** - The name of the pull request base branch.

### GitLab

These variables are injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a GitLab
repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITLAB_NAMESPACE`** - The namespace of the GitLab repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITLAB_PROJECT`** - The project name of the GitLab repository.

These variables are only injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a
GitLab merge request.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITLAB_MR`** - The GitLab merge request number.

- **`$TUGBOAT_GITLAB_TITLE`** - The title of the GitLab merge request.

* **`$TUGBOAT_GITLAB_SOURCE`** - The name of the merge request source branch.

* **`$TUGBOAT_GITLAB_TARGET`** - The name of the merge request target branch.

### Stash / Bitbucket Server

These variables are injected into a Tugboat Previews that are built from a Stash
or Bitbucket Server repository.

- **`$TUGBOAT_STASH_PROJECT`** - The project where the repository lives.

- **`$TUGBOAT_STASH_SLUG`** - The URL-friendly name of the repository. See
  https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucket/what-is-a-slug-224395839.html

These variables are only injected into Tugboat Previews that are built from a
Stash or Bitbucket Server pull request.

- **`$TUGBOAT_STASH_PR`** - The pull request number.

- **`$TUGBOAT_STASH_TITLE`** - The title of the pull request.

* **`$TUGBOAT_STASH_SOURCE`** - The name of the pull request source branch.

* **`$TUGBOAT_STASH_DESTINATION`** - The name of the pull request destination
  branch.
