content/building-a-preview/administer-previews/delete-previews.md, before:

---
title: "Delete Previews"
date: 2019-09-24T11:48:24-04:00
weight: 5
---

Need to get rid of a Preview you're not using anymore? Each Preview in your
Tugboat project counts toward the total
[storage size for Tugboat billing](/tugboat-billing/tugboat-pricing/#how-does-tugboat-pricing-work),
so it's a good idea to get rid of Previews you don't need.

To delete a Preview:

1. Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
   upper-right of the Tugboat screen.
2. Select the project where you want to delete a Preview.
3. Click into the repo where you want to delete a Preview.
4. Select the Preview you want to delete.
5. Click the **Actions** drop-down menu for that Preview, and select **Delete**.
6. Press the **Yes** button to confirm.

#### Visual Walkthrough

Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
upper-right of the Tugboat screen.

![Go to username -> My Projects](/_images/go-to-user-my-projects.png)

Select the project where you want to delete a Preview.

![Select the project](/_images/select-a-project.png)

Click into the repo where you want to delete a Preview.

![Click into Tugboat repository](/_images/click-into-tugboat-repository.png)

Select the Preview you want to delete.

![Select a Preview build](/_images/select-a-preview.png)

Click the **Actions** drop-down menu for that Preview, and select **Delete**.

![Click the Actions drop-down, and select Delete.](/_images/preview-action-delete.png)

Press the **Yes** button to confirm.

![Press Yes to confirm Delete](/_images/preview-action-confirm-delete.png)

Commit message:

Apply ui-text shortcode to UI elements in doc

content/building-a-preview/administer-previews/delete-previews.md, after:

---
title: "Delete Previews"
date: 2019-09-24T11:48:24-04:00
weight: 5
---

Need to get rid of a Preview you're not using anymore? Each Preview in your
Tugboat project counts toward the total
[storage size for Tugboat billing](/tugboat-billing/tugboat-pricing/#how-does-tugboat-pricing-work),
so it's a good idea to get rid of Previews you don't need.

To delete a Preview:

1. Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
   upper-right of the Tugboat screen.
2. Select the project where you want to delete a Preview.
3. Click into the repo where you want to delete a Preview.
4. Select the Preview you want to delete.
5. Click the {{% ui-text %}}Actions{{% /ui-text %}} drop-down menu for that
   Preview, and select {{% ui-text %}}Delete{{% /ui-text %}}.
6. Press the {{% ui-text %}}Yes{{% /ui-text %}} button to confirm.

#### Visual Walkthrough

Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
upper-right of the Tugboat screen.

![Go to username -> My Projects](/_images/go-to-user-my-projects.png)

Select the project where you want to delete a Preview.

![Select the project](/_images/select-a-project.png)

Click into the repo where you want to delete a Preview.

![Click into Tugboat repository](/_images/click-into-tugboat-repository.png)

Select the Preview you want to delete.

![Select a Preview build](/_images/select-a-preview.png)

Click the {{% ui-text %}}Actions{{% /ui-text %}} drop-down menu for that
Preview, and select {{% ui-text %}}Delete{{% /ui-text %}}.

![Click the Actions drop-down, and select Delete.](/_images/preview-action-delete.png)

Press the {{% ui-text %}}Yes{{% /ui-text %}} button to confirm.

![Press Yes to confirm Delete](/_images/preview-action-confirm-delete.png)
