content/building-a-preview/share-a-preview/manually-share-url.md, before:

---
title: "Manually Share a Preview URL"
date: 2019-09-24T11:56:48-04:00
weight: 1
---

Want to share a Preview link manually with Lisa in Product, or Dan the client?

## To manually get the link to a Preview you want to share:

1. Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
   upper-right of the Tugboat screen.
2. Select the project that contains the Preview you want to share.
3. Click the name of the repo that contains the Preview you want to share.
4. Go to the Preview you want to share, and either open the Preview and copy the
   URL from the browser's address bar, or use the browser options to Copy Link
   on the **Preview** button.

Send that link to the person who needs to look at the Preview, and they'll be
able to view it. Tugboat links are hard-to-guess secure URLs that are accessible
to anyone with the link; that person doesn't need to be a member of your
[Tugboat crew](/administer-tugboat-crew/user-admin/), or able to view the git
repo where the code is hosted.

#### Visual Walkthrough

Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
upper-right of the Tugboat screen.

![Go to username -> My Projects](/_images/go-to-user-my-projects.png)

Select the project that contains the Preview you want to share.

![Select the project](/_images/select-a-project.png)

Click the name of the repo that contains the Preview you want to share.

![Click into Tugboat repository](/_images/click-into-tugboat-repository.png)

Go to the Preview you want to share, and either open the Preview and copy the
URL from the browser's address bar, or use the browser options to Copy Link on
the **Preview** button.

![Manually share Preview](/_images/manually-share-preview.png)

Commit message:

Apply ui-text shortcode to UI elements in doc

content/building-a-preview/share-a-preview/manually-share-url.md, after:

---
title: "Manually Share a Preview URL"
date: 2019-09-24T11:56:48-04:00
weight: 1
---

Want to share a Preview link manually with Lisa in Product, or Dan the client?

## To manually get the link to a Preview you want to share:

1. Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
   upper-right of the Tugboat screen.
2. Select the project that contains the Preview you want to share.
3. Click the name of the repo that contains the Preview you want to share.
4. Go to the Preview you want to share, and either open the Preview and copy the
   URL from the browser's address bar, or use the browser options to Copy Link
   on the {{% ui-text %}}Preview{{% /ui-text %}} button.

Send that link to the person who needs to look at the Preview, and they'll be
able to view it. Tugboat links are hard-to-guess secure URLs that are accessible
to anyone with the link; that person doesn't need to be a member of your
[Tugboat crew](/administer-tugboat-crew/user-admin/), or able to view the git
repo where the code is hosted.

#### Visual Walkthrough

Go to username -> [My Projects](https://dashboard.tugboat.qa/projects) at the
upper-right of the Tugboat screen.

![Go to username -> My Projects](/_images/go-to-user-my-projects.png)

Select the project that contains the Preview you want to share.

![Select the project](/_images/select-a-project.png)

Click the name of the repo that contains the Preview you want to share.

![Click into Tugboat repository](/_images/click-into-tugboat-repository.png)

Go to the Preview you want to share, and either open the Preview and copy the
URL from the browser's address bar, or use the browser options to Copy Link on
the {{% ui-text %}}Preview{{% /ui-text %}} button.

![Manually share Preview](/_images/manually-share-preview.png)
